# Pbench server V1 API documentation

The documents in this set describe the APIs supported by the Pbench 1.0 server.

## Discovering the Pbench server API

Once you know the hostname of a Pbench Server, you can ask for the API
configuration using the [endpoints](endpoints.md) API. This will report the
server's version and a list of all API end points supported by the server.

## Login and registration

You can register a new user (depending on the administration policy of the
server) using the [register](register.md) API. If this succeeds, you can log in
using the new username and password.

You can log in as a registered user by calling the [login](login.md) API, which
returns a bearer schema authentication token that should be provided to
subsequent API calls using the `authorization` header.

You can log out an active authentication token by passing it as the
`authorization` header to the [logout](logout.md) API.

While logged in, you can retrieve (`GET`) and modify (`PUT`) your user profile
through the [user](user.md) API.

## Dataset metadata

You can read a more complete specification of Pbench Server metadata at
[metadata](../metadata.md).

When a dataset is first processed, the Pbench Server will populate basic
metadata, including the creation timestamp, the owner of the dataset (the user
associated with the authorization token given to the Pbench Agent
`pbench-results-move` command), and the full contents of the dataset's
`metadata.log` file inside the dataset tarball. The Pbench Server will also
calculate a default deletion date for the dataset based on the owner's
retention policy and the server administrator's retention policy.

Clients can also set arbitrary metadata through the `dashboard` and `user`
metadata namespaces. The `dashboard` namespace can only be modified by the
owner of the dataset, and is visible to anyone with read access to the dataset.
The `user` namespace is private to each authenticated user, and even if you
don't own a dataset you can set your own private `user` metadata to help you
categorize that dataset and to find it again.

The primary dataset `resource_id` is the computed MD5 of the dataset tarball.
This is generated by the agent, and checked on the server side to ensure data
consistency.

## Discovering accessible datasets

The datasets accessible by a client are limited by the dataset access controls
and the client's authorization. Any client can read all "public" datasets, but
only the owning user can access "private" datasets.

You can determine the datasets you're allowed to view using the [list](list.md)
API. This will return the resource name, the formal resource ID, and selected
metadata for each dataset the authenticated user is allowed to read. You can
filter the datasets you want listed by date range, owning user, or access
policy.

It may sometimes be convenient to know the date range of those datasets in
advance, for example to initialize a date picker. You can do this by calling
the [daterange](daterange.md) API; 

## Discovering dataset details

To get the details of the dataset's run configuration, in addition to specified
server metadata, you can use the [detail](detail.md) API. This returns the
resource ID of each selected dataset, along with selectable metadata providing
information about the system configuration and tool configuration for the
dataset.

## Managing a dataset

You can control the visibility (access policy) for a dataset that you own by
using the [publish](publish.md) API. You can make each dataset "public"
(readable to everyone) or "private" (readable only to you).

To delete a dataset you own, use [delete](delete.md).

## Accessing dataset inventory

The Pbench Agent code uploads a dataset to the Pbench Server in the form of a
tarball with a carefully designed format. That tarball contains a directory
structure which the Pbench Server uses to index and expose details collected by
the Pbench Agent during the course of a Pbench benchmark run.

While there are many ways for a client to access the metrics and metadata
associated with a dataset, a client can also directly access the dataset
tarball inventory.

The [contents](contents.md) API exposes the directory hierarchy within the
tarball, from the root directory `/` through the leaf files. A client can
discover the entire hierarchical content of the dataset tarball by iterating
through the `directories` list of each
[directory object](contents.md#directory-object).

The [inventory](inventory.md) API returns the raw byte stream of any regular
file within the directory hierarchy, including log files, postprocessed JSON
files, and benchmark result text files.

### Example

```
    def directory(request, url: str, name: str = "/", level: int = 0):
        ls = request.get(url).get_json()
        print(f"{'  '*level}{name}")
        for d in ls.directories:
            directory(request, level + 1, d.name, d.url)
        for f in ls.files:
            print(f"{'  '*(level+1)}{f.name})
            bytes = request.get(f.url)
            # display byte stream:
            # inline on terminal doesn't really make sense

    directory(request, "http://host.example.com/api/v1/contents/<dataset>/")
```
