## Containerized pbench
This directory contains OPenShift templates, dockerfiles needed to build and run containerized pbench.

### Prepare the nodes you want to monitor
The nodes need to have pbench-agent, collectd images on it. The qcow images generated by the image provisioner already has the images baked in. In case the nodes doesn't have the images, please pull them from dockerhub:
#### pbench-agent
```
$ docker pull ravielluri/image:agent
$ docker tag ravielluri/image:agent pbench-agent:latest
```

### Label the nodes with a type=pbench label
```   
$ oc label node <node> type=pbench
```

### Create a service account and add it to the privileged scc
```
$ oc create serviceaccount useroot
$ oc adm policy add-scc-to-user privileged -z useroot
```

### Create pbench-agent pods and patch it
```
$ oc create -f openshift_templates/performance_monitoring/pbench/pbench-agent-daemonset.yml
$ oc patch daemonset pbench-agent --patch \ '{"spec":{"template":{"spec":{"serviceAccountName": "useroot"}}}}'
```

## Prepare the jump host to run pbench-controller

### Get the controller image from dockerhub
```
$ docker pull ravielluri/image:controller
$ docker tag ravielluri/image:controller pbench-controller:latest
```

### keys
copy the ssh keys to /root/scale-testing/keys. The keys directory should contain a perf key named as id_rsa_perf,  id_rsa - the private key needed to copy the results to the pbench server, authorized_keys file -ansible needs to have a passwordless authentication to localhost inside the container, ssh config which looks like:
```
Host *
	User root
        Port 2022
        StrictHostKeyChecking no
        PasswordAuthentication no
        UserKnownHostsFile ~/.ssh/known_hosts
        IdentityFile ~/.ssh/id_rsa_perf  
      
Host *pbench-server
        User root
        Port 22
        StrictHostKeyChecking no
        PasswordAuthentication no
        UserKnownHostsFile ~/.ssh/known_hosts
        IdentityFile /opt/pbench-agent/id_rsa
```

### Inventory
Make sure you have the inventory used to install openshift and it should look like:
```
[pbench-controller]

[masters]
    
[nodes]

[etcd]

[lb]

[prometheus-metrics]
<host> port=8443 cert=/etc/origin/master/admin.crt key=/etc/origin/master/admin.key
<host> port=10250 cert=/etc/origin/master/admin.crt key=/etc/origin/master/admin.key

[pbench-controller:vars]
register_all_nodes=False
```

Set register_all_nodes to true if the tools needs to be registered on all the nodes, if not set to true, it registers pbench tools on just two of the nodes.

NOTE: 
- Make sure all the variables are defined under [group:vars], all the stuff under [groups] are assumed to be the node ip’s.

- In HA environment, we will have an lb which is not an openshift node. This means that there won’t be a pbench-agent pod running on the lb, pbench-ansible will fail registering tools as it won’t find a pbench-agent pod. So, we need to make a copy of the original inventory and get rid of the lb node from the inventory which is being mounted into the container.
  
- We need to make sure we stick to either ip’s or hostnames in both inventory and openshift for certificates to be valid.

## Run benchmarks
Edit the vars file and set benchmark_type variable to the benchmark that you want to run, pbench_server - host where the results are moved when move_results is set to True.

### Avalaible benchmark_type options:
- nodeVertical
- http
- masterVertical

## Run
```
$ docker_id=$(docker run -t -d --name=controller --net=host --privileged \
  -v /var/lib/pbench-agent:/var/lib/pbench-agent \
  -v <path to results directory>:/var/lib/pbench-agent \
  -v <path to the inventory>:/root/inventory \
  -v <path to the vars file>:/root/vars \
  -v <path to the keys>:/root/.ssh \
  -v <path to benchmark.sh>:/root/benchmark.sh pbench-controller
```

### Results
If the move_results is set to True, the results are moved to the pbench server. In case you want to look at the results before moving, set move_results to False and the results will be available at /root/scale-testing/results which is mounted to the pbench-controller container.

### Monitoring the benchmark
In case you want to monitor what's going on inside the container, please take a look at the logs:

```
$ docker logs -f pbench-controller
```
You should be able to see the pbench-ansible registering the tools and the benchmark stdout.

### Need for privileged container
Docker needs to be run under privileged mode to get access to the host system's devices. Host's /var/lib/pbench-agent directory, /proc are mounted on to the container.
